Strip tagged cells from `.ipynb` notebooks passed to the `NotebookLite` and `JupyterLite` directives (#180)
jupyterlite/jupyterlite-sphinx: docs/configuration.md

jupyterlite_config = "jupyterlite_config.json"
```

## Strip particular tagged cells from IPython Notebooks

When using the `NotebookLite`, `JupyterLite`, or `Voici` directives with a notebook passed, you can
strip particular tagged cells from the notebook before rendering it in the JupyterLite console.

This behaviour can be enabled by setting the following config:

```python
strip_tagged_cells = True
```

and then tag the cells you want to strip with the tag `strip` in the JSON metadata of the cell, like this:

```json
{
  "tags": [
    "strip": "true"
  ]

> }

Reviewer: What do you think about changing the tag name to `jupyterlite_sphinx_strip`? Then if someone sees one of these notebooks in the wild, there will be more context to figure out what the tag means, and a google search would probably even pull up the `jupyterlite_sphinx` documentation.

Author: I agree. Didn't think about how it would show up in a Google search, nice idea.

Author: Addressed in 2af69e5c3655713bb99ce7579a56760a923ec4a6.

jupyterlite_config = "jupyterlite_config.json"
```

## Strip particular tagged cells from IPython Notebooks

> When using the `NotebookLite`, `JupyterLite`, or `Voici` directives with a notebook passed, you can

Author: ```suggestion
When using the `NotebookLite`, `JupyterLite`, or `Voici` directives with a notebook passed to them, you can
```

strip particular tagged cells from the notebook before rendering it in the JupyterLite console.

This behaviour can be enabled by setting the following config:

```python
strip_tagged_cells = True
```

> and then tag the cells you want to strip with the tag `jupyterlite_sphinx_strip` in the JSON metadata

Author: ```suggestion
and then by tagging the cells you want to strip with the tag `jupyterlite_sphinx_strip` in the JSON metadata
```

of the cell, like this:

```json
{
  "tags": [
    "jupyterlite_sphinx_strip": "true"
  ]
}
```

This is useful when you want to remove some cells from the rendered notebook in the JupyterLite
console, for example, cells that are used for adding reST-based directives or other
Sphinx-specific content.

For example, you can use this feature to remove the `toctree` directive from the rendered notebook
in the JupyterLite console:

```json
{
  "cells": [
    {
      "cell_type": "markdown",
      "metadata": {
        "tags": [

>           "strip": "true"

Author: ```suggestion
          "jupyterlite_sphinx_strip": "true"
```

        ]
      },
      "source": [
        "# Table of Contents\n",
        "\n",
        "```{toctree}\n",
        ":maxdepth: 2\n",
        "\n",
        "directives/jupyterlite\n",
        "directives/notebooklite\n",
        "directives/replite\n",
        "directives/voici\n",
        "directives/try_examples\n",
        "full\n",
        "changelog\n",
        "```"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

where the cell with the `toctree` directive will be removed from the rendered notebook in
the JupyterLite console.

> Note that this feature is only available for the `NotebookLite`, `JupyterLite`, and the
> `Voici` directives and works with the `ipynb` files passed to them, and therefore does
> not work with the `TryExamples` directive.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that this feature is only available for the `NotebookLite`, `JupyterLite`, and the
`Voici` directives and works with the `.ipynb` files passed to them. It is not implemented
for the `TryExamples` directive.
```
